Path resolution docs + proposed changes (path spec v1) (#11105)
ethereum/solidity: docs/layout-of-source-files.rst

  import {symbol1 as alias, symbol2} from "filename";

.. _path-resolution:

Path Resolution
---------------

The paths used in imports are not filesystem paths.
In the simplest cases they may end up being used directly to load files from disk but in general
the final path can be substantially different due to abstractions necessary to ensure reproducible
builds on different platforms.

.. index:: import key, import path, filesystem path

Virtual Filesystem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The compiler maintains an internal database (virtual filesystem) where each compiled module is

Reviewer: Do we use the word "module"? (I would have expected "source unit')

Author: I can change it. But doesn't source unit also include the stuff it imports?

Author: I checked the docs and I see that we use "source unit" most of the time. "Module" is used very rarely in that sense. This page was actually the one that used the term "module" the most (in the old version) :)

I replaced all mentions of "module" with "source unit" in the text except for a few cases  where I think it is used in a more general sense.

> assigned a unique *import key* which is an opaque and unstructured identifier.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we can say that, since `.` and `..` actually use structure inside these identifiers.

Author: In these docs I distinguish between "import paths" (paths you specify in import statement) and "import key" (the ID that ends up assigned to the file in the virtual filesystem). AFAIK `.` and `..` only have special meaning in import paths, not import keys.

While an import key in the virtual filesystem can be anything, it should be a valid path if the
source is meant to be loaded from the underlying filesystem.
When the requested key is not present in the virtual filesystem, it is passed to the file loader.
In case of the command-line compiler the file loader simply uses it as a path.
The `JavaScript interface <https://github.com/ethereum/solc-js>`_ is a bit more flexible in that
regard and allows the user to provide a callback to perform this operation.
In this case the keys can be arbitrary.

> For example they could be URLs as long as the custom loader can handle them.

Reviewer: Remix actually makes use of that.

Author: Yeah. It's mentioned later in the section about using URLs in imports.

There are several ways to load modules into the virtual filesystem:

#. **import statement**

>    The ``import`` statement tells the compiler to load and compile a module and then make its
>    content available to the current module.

Reviewer: I think we should be more specific than "content":
```suggestion
   The ``import`` statement requests a module from the compiler and allows to access certain symbols from that module.
```

   We will refer to the path used in the statement as *import path*.
   The import path is translated into an import key first and then the compiler uses the key to
   look up the file in its virtual filesystem.

   Imports can be broadly classified into three categories based on how the path is specified:

   .. code-block:: solidity

       import "/contracts/lib/token.sol";   // Absolute
       import "contracts/lib/token.sol";    // Relative to base
       import "./contracts/lib/token.sol";  // Relative to source

> 

Reviewer: What about `import "../a/b.sol";`?

Author: I could add it but there's a whole section about relative imports below with many examples so I tried to keep it short there.

Author: Done.

   There is actually no distinction between absolute imports and imports relative to base at the
   virtual filesystem level - in both cases the import path is translated into an import key using
   the same rules - but they are handled differently by the default file loader.

   Imports relative to source, on the other hand, need to be interpreted as paths and normalized to
   be properly resolved into import keys.
   The path in this case must conform to UNIX path conventions regardless of the underlying platform.

#. **CLI**

   To compile a file using the command-line interface of the compiler you specify one or more paths:

   .. code-block:: bash

       solc contract.sol /usr/local/dapp-bin/token.sol

   These are interpreted as *filesystem paths* and the rules for translating them into import keys
   are different than for import paths.
   They follow the shell rules instead: they can only be relatve to

>    the current working directory and they are normalized and converted into canonical form according

Reviewer: Maybe we should give a hint about what this means? It's mostly about converting relative into absolute paths, right?

Author: Done.

It's a bit more. It's also about switching the format from platform-dependent (e.g. `C:\project\contract.sol`) to the UNIX one, removing duplicate slashes and collapsing the `./` and `../` segments in the middle of the path.

   to platform-specific rules to determine which physical file they refer to.
   Only if the file actually exists under that path, it is added to the virtual filesystem and the
   import key is based on the canonical path.

#. **Standard JSON (as content)**

   An alternative way to compile your project is to use the ``--standard-json`` option and provide
   a JSON file containing all of your source code:

   .. code-block:: json

       {
           "language": "Solidity",
           "sources": {
               "contract.sol": {
                   "content": "import \"./util.sol\";\ncontract C {}"
               },
               "util.sol": {
                   "content": "library Util {}"
               },
               "/usr/local/dapp-bin/token.sol": {
                   "content": "contract Token {}"
               }
           },
           "settings": {"outputSelection": {"*": { "*": ["metadata", "evm.bytecode"]}}}
       }

   The ``sources`` dictionary specifies the initial content of the virtual filesystem and you

>    can use import keys directly there.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should really use term "import key" here. These values are the names of the source  files as the compiler calls them. The import statement is just one way to reference to them.

Author: "import key" is exactly the term I am using for "names of the source files as the compiler calls them" :) And is different from "import path", which is the exact text you put inside `import "...";`.

Is there another name that would be clearer? Maybe "source unit ID"? Or "VFS key"?

Author: I have renamed "import key" to "source unit ID" everywhere in the text.

   They do not undergo any extra translation or normalization.

   The path to the JSON file does not affect the path resolution in any way.
   In fact, it is common to supply it on the standard input in which case it does not have a path at all.

   .. note::

       When using ``--standard-json`` you cannot provide additional source files as command-line
       arguments but it does not mean that the compiler will not load any extra files from disk.

>        If a contract imports a file that is not present in `sources`, the compiler will use the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       If a contract imports a file that is not present in ``sources``, the compiler will use the file
```

>        loader as in any other situation, which may result in the source being read from disk.

Reviewer: or the read file file callback (when using solc-js) being called?

Author: Well, ok, though repeating the info about the callback quickly becomes tedious :) I tried to avoid that where I could, even at the cost of being less precise, not to make the text even longer.

> 

Author: Is this actually desirable? Is there a practical use case for this? Honestly, I expected the compiler to never touch the actual filesystem when using Standard JSON and I suspect many people would expect that too.

Reviewer: I would also prefer this, but I think it was a user request. It might be very useful because it means that the compiler performs import resolution.

Author: Oh. I guess it's this one: #4688?

Maybe we could introduce a command-line option or something in `settings` in the JSON file so that you have to explicitly enable this?

#. **Standard JSON (as URL)**

   When using Standard JSON it is possible to  tell the compiler to load the files from disk directly:

   .. code-block:: json

       {
           "language": "Solidity",
           "sources": {
               "/usr/local/dapp-bin/token.sol": {
                   "urls": ["/projects/mytoken.sol"]
               }
           },
           "settings": {"outputSelection": {"*": { "*": ["metadata", "evm.bytecode"]}}}
       }

   The path specified in ``urls`` is only passed to the file loader and used to locate the file.
   It does not affect the import key and is not included in contract metadata.

>    Paths in ``urls`` are affected by base path and any other transformations performed by the file loader.

Author: This has been reported as a bug in #9346. I think the behavior will be fine if make base path affect only relative imports (as assumed in the rest of these docs).

#. **Standard input**

   The last way to provide the source is by sending it to compiler's standard input:

   .. code-block:: bash

       echo 'import "./util.sol"; contract C {}' | solc -

   The content of the standard input is identified in the virtual filesystem by a special import key:
   ``<stdin>``.

.. warning::

    The compiler uses import keys to determine whether imports refer to the same module or not.

>     If you refer to a file in multiple ways that translate to different keys, it will be compiled

Reviewer: This sounds like it would only generate the code twice, but the problem is that you might also get symbol collisions.

Author: I just checked and `--metadata` shows three different instances of the token contract.

You're right about the collision. I need to add the `as` part to the imports to avoid them.

        import "tokens///token.sol" // Import key: tokens///token.sol

    .. code-block:: bash

        cd /code
        solc tokens/contract.sol /code/tokens/token.sol # Import key: /code/tokens/token.sol

    In the above ``token.sol`` will end up in the virtual filesystem under three different
    import keys even though all the paths refer to the same file in the underlying filesystem.

    To avoid this situation it is recommended to always use the canonical form of paths in your
    imports and to only list the top-level files that are not imported by other files when
    invoking the CLI compiler.

Now that we know how the virtual filesystem works, let us go through the rules used to translate
import paths into import keys in more detail.

.. index:: absolute import

Absolute Imports
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An *absolute import* always starts with a forward slash (``/``).
The import path translates directly to an import key without normalization of any kind:

::

    import "/project/lib/util.sol" as util;          // Import key: /project/lib/util.sol
    import "/project/lib/../lib///math.sol" as math; // Import key: /project/lib/../lib///math.sol

> In the above you might expect the import key to be reduced to ``/project/lib/math.sol`` but it is

Reviewer: I think we should fix this,shouldn't we?

Author: As long as we agree that it should not work that way. From #2738 I got the impression that things are not being normalized on purpose.

in fact ``/project/lib/../lib///math.sol``, exactly as stated in the file.

If no file is present under that key in the virtual filesystem, the file loader will also use it as
is for filesystem lookup.

> The resulting filesystem path is not affected by the value of base path.

Author: This is currently not the case. Base path is prepended to both absolute and relative imports. I think it's reasonable to expect the file loader not to prepend base path if the import key starts with `/`.

.. index:: import relative to base, relative import

.. _imports-relative-to-base:

Imports Relative to Base
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Any import that does not start with ``/``, ``./`` or ``../`` is an *import relative to base*.

::

    import "lib/util.sol" as util;                   // Import key: lib/util.sol
    import "@openzeppelin/address.sol" as address;   // Import key: @openzeppelin/address.sol
    import "https://example.com/token.sol" as token; // Import key: https://example.com/token.sol

There is no difference between such imports and absolute ones at the the virtual filesystem level.
The compiler sees both as opaque identifiers and there is no normalization involved:

::

>     import "lib/../lib///math.sol" as math; // Import key: lib/../lib///math.sol

Author: After writing this all down, I think that not normalizing imports makes behavior more complex than it needs to be and causes tons of unexpected corner cases. Even more so given that we do normalize them in some cases (i.e. in imports relative to source). I think that we should either do some limited normalization on all imports (i.e. remove duplicate slashes, collapse `./` and `../` segments where possible, etc.), or import paths to be already normalized.

Only when the key is passed to the file loader and needs to be converted into an actual filesystem
path different rules kick in.
To convert the path into a absolute one, the loader combines it with the path specified using the
``--base-path`` option.
If the base path itself is relative, it is interpreted as relative to the current working directory
just like any other path given on the command line.

Base path also affects the way paths specified on the command line are converted into import keys.
The import key normally is the absolute, normalized path to the file in the UNIX format but if the
file happens to be inside the directory designated as the base path or one of its subdirectories
the prefix is stripped from its import key and it becomes relative to base.

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /home/user
    solc /project/contract.sol                      # Import key: /project/contract.sol

>     solc /project/contract.sol --base-path /project # Import key: contract.sol

Author: This is not how it works now but the current behavior has been reported as a bug in #4702.

https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/issues/4702#issuecomment-683830235 pretty clearly indicates that stripping of base path is desirable. It states that the file path should not be converted to an absolute one though. I think it should because this way we will get consistent import keys regardless of where a file is being compiled from. When using a relative path on the command line you have to make it relative to the current working directory and there is no other choice. Therefore you cannot always use relative paths on the command line to match relative paths in your imports. I think that making paths inside base path relative and others absolute is a better mechanism.

Note that if you do not specify base path, it is by default equal to the current working directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /project
    solc /home/user/contract.sol                      # Import key: contract.sol

>     solc /home/user/contract.sol --base-path /project # Import key: contract.sol

Author: This is also not true. Base path is by default `""`. This does not matter when the file loader does filesystem lookup (the result will be the same) but does make a difference for the purpose of stripping base path from file paths specified on the command line.

combines it with the path of the importing module to get the import key.

.. code-block:: solidity
    :caption: /project/lib/math.sol

    import "./util.sol" as util;    // Import key: /project/lib/util.sol
    import "../token.sol" as token; // Import key: /lib/token.sol

If the parent import key is relative to base, the resulting import key is relative to base as well:

.. code-block:: solidity
    :caption: lib/math.sol

    import "./util.sol" as util;    // Import key: lib/util.sol
    import "../token.sol" as token; // Import key: token.sol

To evaluate the prefix, the compiler starts with the import key of the importing module and first
strips the file name. Then, for every ``../`` segment in the import path it strips one segment
from the key.

.. code-block:: solidity
    :caption: /a/b/c/contract.sol

    import "../util.sol";          // Import key: /a/b/util.sol
    import "../../util.sol";       // Import key: /a/util.sol
    import "../../../util.sol";    // Import key: /util.sol

    import "../././.././util.sol"; // Import key: /a/util.sol

If there are more ``../`` segments than directory segments in the parent import key, the evaluation

> stops at the root:

Author: I talked about this with @chriseth and the reason for this is that this is actually the normal behavior for UNIX paths. `/../../` is equivalent to just `/`. We also agreed that it wouldn't hurt to make this an error instead.

    :caption: a/b/c/contract.sol

    import "../../../../util.sol";       // Import key: util.sol
    import "../../../../../util.sol";    // Import key: util.sol
    import "../../../../../../util.sol"; // Import key: util.sol

After stripping the leading relative segments, the import path is normalized so that the
resulting import key does not contain any ``./`` or ``../``:

.. code-block:: solidity
    :caption: /a/b/c/contract.sol

    import "../../d/e///.././util.sol"; // Import key: /a/e/util.sol

This is quite different from imports relative to base where the ``///.././`` part would remain
in the import key.

Note that the parent import key is **not** normalized, and the ``./`` and ``../`` segments in it
have no special meaning:

.. code-block:: solidity
    :caption: ../lib/math.sol

    import "./util.sol" as util;    // Import key: ../lib/util.sol
    import "../token.sol" as token; // Import key: ../../token.sol

This may lead to surprising results in corner cases:

.. code-block:: solidity
    :caption: /a/./b/contract.sol

    import "../c/util.sol";       // Import key: /a/./c/util.sol
    import "../../c/util.sol";    // Import key: /a/c/util.sol

>     import "../../../c/util.sol"; // Import key: /c/util.sol

Author: This is how it works currently but I think it would be more intuitive if we changed it so that the whole resulting path is normalized.

The only reason I can think of for this behavior might be not to break something like this:
```json
{
   "language": "Solidity",
   "sources": {
       "https://github.com/user/repo/contract.sol": {
           "content": "import \"./token.sol\";\ncontract C {}"
       },
       "https://github.com/user/repo/token.sol": {
           "content": "library Util {}"
       }
   },
   "settings": {
       "outputSelection": {"*": { "*": ["metadata", "evm.bytecode"]}}
   }
}
```

With parent key normalization `./token.sol` would resolve to `https:/github.com/user/repo/token.sol` (note the missing slash).

But I think that we might be better off just adding a special case for URLs and treating everything else as paths.

> 

Reviewer: Can we state that the use of `import ../` is discouraged and people should rather use absolute imports with remappings or relative imports instead?

Author: Sure. But what is the rationale behind that? For me such relative imports seem pretty natural. It's the ones relative to base that are counter-intuitive.

Author: Oh, I see that you mean only `../` (i.e. not including `./`). Ok, I think you're right. If you need to go up or sideways in the hierarchy, base path is probably better. Still not sure how to argument it though. I added the recommendation but my rationale is pretty vague :)

.. index:: remapping, import remapping
.. _import-remapping:

Import Remapping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Base path and relative imports allow you to feely move your project around the filesystem but still
force yout to keep all files within in a single directory and its subdirectories.
When using external libraries it is often desirable to keep their files in a separate location.
To help with that, the compiler provides another mechanism: import remapping.

Remapping allows you to use placeholders as import key prefixes and then have the compiler replace
them with actual paths.
For example you can set up a remapping so that everything imported from the virtual directory
``github.com/ethereum/dapp-bin/library`` would actually be read from your local directory

> ``/usr/local/dapp-bin/library``.

Reviewer: I think the `/usr/local` example is not a good one. We should use one that is still inside the base path.

Author: The funny thing is that this is the original example that was already here before. I just rewrapped the lines and integrated it with my text. I had my own but decided that preserving some existing ones would be better :)

Anyway, I'll change it.

Author: I changed the example to use `dapp-bin/library` with `--base-path /project` instead.

The remappings can depend on a context, which allows you to configure packages to import,
e.g. different versions of a library of the same name.

.. warning::

    Information about used remappings is stored in contract metadata so, while they let you avoid
    changing the source, they cannot be used to achieve reproducible builds.

>     The metadata hash embedded in the bytecode will not be the same if you perform import remapping.

Author: I was really surprised that this is the case. I think this defeats the purpose of using remappings in many cases.

Reviewer: Remappings were actually not meant to be used with local paths. After all, the last part of a remapping is an entry in the virtual filesystem.

Author: Do you mean that they were meant to be used only with Standard JSON and solc-js? Because when using CLI, local paths are always involved.

.. code-block:: bash

    solc module1:github.com/ethereum/dapp-bin/=/usr/local/dapp-bin/ \
         module2:github.com/ethereum/dapp-bin/=/usr/local/dapp-bin_old/ \
         source.sol

This means that all imports in ``module2`` point to the old version but imports in ``module1``
point to the new version.

Here are the detailed rules governing the behavior of remappings:

#. **Remappings only affect the translation between import paths and import keys.**

   Import keys added via other means cannot be remapped.
   For example the paths you specify on the command-line and the ones in ``urls`` in Standard JSON
   are not affected.

    .. code-block:: bash

        solc /project=/contracts /project/contract.sol # Import key: /project/contract.sol

#. **Context and prefix must match import keys, not import paths.**

   - This means that you cannot remap ``./`` or ``../`` directly since they are replaced during
     translation to import keys but you can remap the source locations they resolve into:

     .. code-block:: bash

         solc ./=a /project=b /project/contract.sol

     .. code-block:: solidity
         :caption: /project/contract.sol

>          import "./util.sol" as util; // Import key: b/util.sol

Author: I'm not convinced that being able to remap the resolved path is actually useful. See my comment from https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/issues/5281#issuecomment-790708752:

> Also, I wonder if the current behavior is actually useful in practice. In normal circumstances it seems redundant. For example if you do `/a/b=/x/y` then you change `import "/a/b/c.sol"` to `import "/x/y/c.sol"`. If `d.sol` then contains `import "./d.sol"`, the compiler will look for `d.sol` in `/x/y/` (because that's where `c.sol` is physically located) so the remapping does not play any role here.
>
> The only thing you can achieve by remapping the expanded path is the unintuitive behavior where `import "./d.sol"` ends up importing a file that's not in the same directory as `c.sol`. This would happen for example if you used `/a/b=/x/y /x/y=/a/b` in the example above.
>
> For that reason I think it would be better to just completely forbid remapping `.` and `..`. To me it looks like its main use would be writing underhanded code :)

   - You cannot remap base path or any other part of the path that is only added when the file is
     looked up on the underlying filesystem.

     .. code-block:: bash

         solc /project=/contracts /project/contract.sol --base-path /project

     .. code-block:: solidity
         :caption: /project/contract.sol

         import "util.sol" as util; // Import key: util.sol

#. **Target is inserted directly into the import key and does not necessarily have to be a valid path.**

   - It can be anything as long as the file loader can handle it.
     In case of the command-line interface this includes also relative paths.
     When using the JavaScript interface you can just as well use URLs and abstract identifiers if
     your callback can handle them.

   - Remapping happens after paths relative to the source directory have already been resolved.
     This means that targets starting with ``./`` and ``../`` have no special meaning and are

>      relative to the base directory rather than to the source location.

Author: I wonder if might be better to disallow remapping targets to start with `./` or `../`. I think they are not useful in practice and they are ambiguous (I originally assumed they would actually work like imports relative to source but they do not).

   - Remapping targets are not normalized so ``@root=./a/b//`` will remap ``@root/contract.sol``
     to ``./a/b//contract.sol`` and not ``a/b/contract.sol``.

   - If the target does not end with a slash, the compiler will not add one automatically:

     .. code-block:: bash

         solc /project/=/contracts /project/contract.sol

     .. code-block:: solidity
         :caption: /project/contract.sol

         import "/project/util.sol" as util; // Import key: /contractsutil.sol

#. **Context and prefix are patterns and matches must be exact.**

   - ``a//b=c`` will not match ``a/b``.

   - Import keys are not normalized so ``a/b=c`` will not match ``a//b`` either.

   - Parts of file and directory names can match as well.
     ``/newProject/con:/new=old`` will match ``/newProject/contract.sol`` and remap it to
     ``oldProject/contract.sol``.

#. **At most one remapping can be applied to a single import.**

    - If multiple remappings match the same key, the one with the longest matching prefix is chosen.

>     - If prefixes are identical, the one specified last wins.

Author: I think that using duplicate prefixes with the same context should be an error. It should still be possible to have identical prefixes in different contexts though.

I haven't checked what happens in Standard JSON when there are multiple identical prefixes but I'm assuming it's the same as on the command line (I will need to include that case in tests).

    ``https://example.com/project=/project`` will match  ``https://example.com/project/contract.sol``
    but not ``example.com/project/contract.sol``, ``https://example.com/project///contract.sol`` or
    ``https://EXAMPLE.COM/project/contract.sol``.

    Also, since URLs look to the compiler just like imports relative to base there is no
    normalization involved.
    The import key for ``EXAMPLE.COM/project///contract.sol`` is exactly
    ``EXAMPLE.COM/project///contract.sol`` and not ``https://example.com/project/contract.sol``.
    It will only get normalized if the compiler passes the key to the file loader but then the
    normalization rules for paths, not URLs will be applied.

.. note::

    ``file://`` prefix is stripped from import paths and from filesystem paths specified in
    ``urls`` in Standard JSON. It is **not** stripped from filesystem paths provided on the command
    line.
    For example the following will not result in ``contract.sol`` being loaded:

        .. code-block:: bash

            solc file://contract.sol

    The compiler will instead try to find it in a directory called ``file:`` and fail if such a

>     directory does not exist or does not contain ``contract.sol``.

Author: I think we should strip `file://` from command-line paths too if we're stripping it in other situations.

  import {symbol1 as alias, symbol2} from "filename";

.. _path-resolution:

Path Resolution
---------------

The paths used in imports are not filesystem paths.
In the simplest cases they may end up being used directly to load files from disk but in general
the final path can be substantially different due to abstractions necessary to ensure reproducible
builds on different platforms.

.. index:: source unit ID, import path, filesystem path

> Virtual Filesystem

Reviewer: This is still all inside "Layout of a source file". I think we should only explain the syntax of the import statement and the different variants there and move the path-related stuff somewhere else.

Author: Done in #11263. This is now a separate section called "Path Resolution" in the side menu. The layout page only contains a short summary.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The compiler maintains an internal database (virtual filesystem) where each compiled source unit is

> assigned a unique *source unit ID* which is an opaque and unstructured identifier.

Reviewer: "source unit ID" might be confusing because I think we use the same term for a different concept in source maps. Also ID suggests a numeric id (though not necessarily).

Author: Changed to "source unit name".

While a source unit ID in the virtual filesystem can be anything, it should be a valid path if the
source is meant to be loaded from the underlying filesystem.
When the requested ID is not present in the virtual filesystem, it is passed to the file loader.
In case of the command-line compiler the file loader simply uses it as a path.
The `JavaScript interface <https://github.com/ethereum/solc-js>`_ is a bit more flexible in that
regard and allows the user to provide a callback to perform this operation.

> In this case the IDs can be arbitrary.

Reviewer: The IDs can always be arbitrary, the cmdline interface is just unlikely to find appropriate files. Also standard-json allows arbitrary Ids doesn't it?

For example they could be URLs as long as the custom loader can handle them.

There are several ways to load source units into the virtual filesystem:

> #. **import statement**

Reviewer: Shouldn't we start with CLI/standard json and then mention the import, so that it models the regular data-/workflow?

Author: Done in #11263.

   The ``import`` statement requests a module from the compiler and allows to access certain symbols
   from that module.

   We will refer to the path used in the statement as *import path*.
   The import path is translated into a source unit ID first and then the compiler uses the ID to
   look up the file in its virtual filesystem.

   Imports can be broadly classified into three categories based on how the path is specified:

   .. code-block:: solidity

       import "/contracts/lib/token.sol";   // Absolute
       import "contracts/lib/token.sol";    // Relative to base
       import "./contracts/lib/token.sol";  // Relative to source
       import "../contracts/lib/token.sol"; // Relative to source

   There is actually no distinction between :ref:`absolute imports <absolute-imports>` and
   :ref:`imports relative to base <imports-relative-to-base>` at the virtual filesystem level.

>    In both cases the import path is translated into a source unit ID using the same rules but and are

Reviewer: "but and"
